# GDELT-Research-In-The-South-Pacific
This is a repository contains all my Jupyter notebooks, supplementary materials, and the PDF of my final report as a UROC (Undergraduate Research Opportunity Center) student at California State University Monterey Bay. My research mentor is Dr. Elizabeth Gooch from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, CA.

** Abstract **

In this research, we quantify foreign actors media events in the South Pacific involving an environmental theme. We use the GDELT (Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone) database to compare the tones of articles produced by Western, Chinese, and South Pacific (Local) media sources that involve an environmental theme and when a great power (United States, China, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Russia) is involved as an actor. We found when comparing Western, Chinese, and Local news sources, the average sentimental analysis of Western tones is negative, the average of Local tones is slightly positive, and the average of Chinese tones are very positive. When comparing the difference in means by each set of news sources, we used the Welch’s two sample t-test because the distribution of Western, Chinese, and Local tones followed a normal distribution but had unequal variances among the groups. After conducting our statistical analysis, we found there is strong evidence to conclude the difference in means of tones between the three media sources are statistically significant between each pairwise comparison. 
